A folder to store tips and tricks for programming in general, notes on working with specific languages and frameworks, and useful concepts that can be applied to any language when the situation calls for it.



What are the major skill categories I believe are most important in being a software developer?

The first skill that is taught in computing is writing code that completes a specific task. The specific nature of the instructions students recieve ensures that a mindset of defined behavior is instilled early, allowing bigger projects with multiple behaviors/many variations on behaviors is a more approachable step in learning. Writing code is taught first not because it is the most important skill in computing, but because all other important skills in computing are largely meaningless without source code to manage, interact with, or run.

The next skill is reading documentation. The ability to find, digest, and apply technical information about any new tool being used (built when learning the first programming language and developed with all future languages and tools) is vital to success in learning that tool. While secondary sources like user-created tutorials are useful and may be the make-or-break on an individual learning how to begin or make specific progress in a task, reading (the correct version of) formal documentation is an almost guarenteed way of learning the information necessary to proceed, though at a potenially large time cost.

Research Skills: On at least a couple of occassions through out my technical journey I have known that some tool/concept/other must exist, but I lacked the context and or specific vocabulary to find the documentation or tutorial I needed to progress on some challenge, the most impactful being Object Serialization. If I had spent some time using terms I knew or posted somewhere online asking about what I needed to research, I could have saved myself a lot of time. Modern iterations of LLMs should make this process easier and faster.

Version Control: While I myself have not had a great need to return to a previous point in a development process at the time of writing, version control and remote backups are vital to a project going smoothly. Having the safety net of being able to make and share small changes to a code base makes experimentation easier and faster. 

Soft Skills: In non-technical work, I find it to be relatively simple to gauge what someone knows, especially if the work is as much or more physical than mental. This is important so that I do not waste time and patronize them by explaining things they know. In technical work, what a person knows, I find much harder to intuit. I was working pair-wise with a peer and had to stop myself to ask "Are you familiar with X?" on a couple different occasions, and was somewhat surprised by the number of no_s I recieved given the self-confidence displayed (Recognition that this was a bias I held, and am working on). I do think that working with different people semester to semester makes technical communication harder in large part because of the lack of background knowledge on the knowledge and skills of those I am working with.

Command Line: The more I work on technical projects, I have come to understand just how core to development the command line is for multiple reasons. The first is, in short, too many of the interactive tools I have used are not very good. I find one of the biggest issues with interactive software (which has a command-line equivalent) is that there is 1) not enough feedback given to the user about what is happening, 2) there are not as many options presented in an interface as command line options and flags. A prime example as the brief time I spent with GitHub Desktop when trying to clone a repo for a webserver to be run in Docker. In both tools there are buttons to do specific things, but things seemed to occur behind the scenes and without any sign-posting that caused major issues in trying to blow away all local data that was still maintained. Ultimately, moving to the command line and only opening Docker to start the Docker Backend turned out to create a far smoother development experience (outside of working with Ruby, which is its own can of worms). 

New Tool Interfacing: 