# Subversion 1.7 Notes

This document will contain the notes I take on the PDF also within this directory. The beginning of the book contains a number of registries of helpful information: exmaples, tables, and key sections.


## Important Commands::

`svn` - the CLI for Subversion

`svnversion` - reports the state of the working copy. I would understand this to a close equivalent to `git status`, though I am not certain.

`svnlook` - Subversion repo 'inspection tool'. Unclear what this is, may relate to how the remote branches are structured.

`svnadmin` - meta/administrative commands over a repo.

`mod_dav_svn` - module for Apache HTTP Server

`svnserve` - creates SSH or deamon server for Subversion repo


## Methodologies of Version Control

In order to ensure that users do not clobber each other's work, VCSs must decide how to manage multiple people editting the one (or multiple interdependent) files. So, what are some options:

1. Lock-Modify-Unlock: LMU requires files be locked within the central repo before they can be modified. This ensures that only one user can edit the file at once, and avoids the problem of incompatible changes within a file. Only after a user unlocks the file can others make changes. Short comings of this strategy include the reliance on a user or admin to unlock files when edits have been completed (or the first user forgets), and cannot account for changes being made to interdependent files that are locked by separate users and modified without communicating about the changes.
> The locking of source code files is largely not necessary and causes more impactful issues than it solves, as humans can generally merge conflicts with relative ease.
> The value of locking comes when a file type cannot easily be merged is being managed. Generally these are large binary files, including audio, graphical, or similar. The benefit of locking files from being changed is that work done by one user is not lost, as only one can work on a locked file at a time.  
2. Copy-Modify-Merge: CMM has users clone the existing files they need, operate on said files, and attempt to submit the changes. If changes are submitted based on a version that is no longer the (file-wise) most recent, an error message is sent to the user making the submission.


## The big difference (aside from centralization)

I am led to believe that the big difference between Git and Subversion is the way that branching is handled. "Projects" (collections of files and directories) are managed in copies, where every file and directory is marked by the latest its revision number applied to it. Subversion also surfaces copies of code in different branches to the user. The typical workflow shows that a `trunk/` directory is the main version of the project. Where the branches and tags are stored in `branches/` and `tags/` directories, which exist as siblings within the root of the repo. Each of the latter directories of course contain feature development branches or important snapshots in development.  